closest cow full page (#5611)
cpinitiative/usaco-guide: solutions/silver/usaco-1158.mdx

---
id: usaco-1158
source: USACO Silver 2021 December
title: Closest Cow Wins
author: David Zhou
---

## Explanation

We can treat each interval between Nhoj's cows as a single problem. After computing the answer for each interval, we can select the $N$ most optimal cow placements for our answer.

There are two types of intervals we need to consider

### 1. Leftmost/Rightmost Intervals

> > We can use a single cow to cutoff Nhoj's cows on either edge. These cows earn all the tastiness left of the leftmost Nhoj cow and right of the rightmost Nhoj cow.

Reviewer: why block quote

>
>For the **two-cow answer**, we can place cows right before both of Nhoj's cows, thus gaining all the tastiness in the interval. We then calculate the **gain** from adding the second cow to be the two-cow tastiness minus the one-cow tastiness.

Finally, we can sort all the potential tastiness gains and select the $N$ largest ones to find our answer.

## Implementation

**Time Complexity:** $\mathcal{O}((K+M)\log(K+M))$

<LanguageSection>

<CPPSection>

```cpp
#include <algorithm>
#include <cstdio>
#include <iostream>
#include <vector>
using namespace std;

int main() {
	ios::sync_with_stdio(false);
	cin.tie(nullptr);

	int K, M, N;
	cin >> K >> M >> N;

	// store both patches and Nhoj's cows in one array
	vector<pair<int, long long>> entries(K + M);
	for (int i = 0; i < K; i++) {
		int pos, tasty;
		cin >> pos >> tasty;
		entries[i] = {pos, tasty};
	}
	for (int i = 0; i < M; i++) {
		int pos;
		cin >> pos;
		entries[K + i] = {pos, -1};  // mark Nhoj cow with tastiness = -1
	}
	sort(entries.begin(), entries.end());

	vector<long long> contributions;
	long long sum_range = 0;
	int last_cow = -1;

> 	for (int i = 0; i < (int)entries.size(); i++) {

Reviewer: is the casting to int necessary hwere

				} else {
					// middle interval: compute 1-cow and 2-cow answers
					long interval_len = entries.get(i).pos - entries.get(last_cow).pos;

					long cur_sum = 0, best_one = 0;
					int r = last_cow;
					for (int j = last_cow + 1; j < i; j++) {
						while (r + 1 < i &&
						       (entries.get(r + 1).pos - entries.get(j).pos) * 2 <
						           interval_len) {
							cur_sum += entries.get(++r).tastiness;
						}
						best_one = Math.max(best_one, cur_sum);
						cur_sum -= entries.get(j).tastiness;
					}

					// pne-cow contribution
					contributions.add(best_one);
					// additional gain if we put a second cow
					contributions.add(sum_range - best_one);
				}
				last_cow = i;
				sum_range = 0;
			} else {
				sum_range += entries.get(i).tastiness;
			}
		}

		// rightmost interval: also fully claimable with 1 cow
		contributions.add(sum_range);

		// sort all contributions descending
		contributions.sort(Collections.reverseOrder());

		// take top N
		long ans = 0;
		for (int i = 0; i < Math.min(N, contributions.size()); i++) {
			ans += contributions.get(i);
		}

		pw.println(ans);
		pw.close();
		br.close();
	}
}
```

</JavaSection>

<PySection>

```py

> K, M, N = map(int, input().split())

Reviewer: lowercase names?

---
id: usaco-1158
source: USACO Silver 2021 December
title: Closest Cow Wins
author: David Zhou
---

> 

Reviewer 2: official editorial!! 🙏

## Explanation

We can treat each interval between Nhoj's cows as a single problem.
After computing the answer for each interval, we can select the $N$ most optimal cow placements for our answer.

There are two types of intervals we need to consider:

### Leftmost/Rightmost Intervals

> We can use a single cow to cutoff Nhoj's cows on either edge.\These cows earn all the tastiness left of the leftmost Nhoj cow and right of the rightmost Nhoj cow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We can use a single cow to cut off Nhoj's cows on either edge. These cows earn all the tastiness left of the leftmost Nhoj cow and right of the rightmost Nhoj cow.
```

### Middle Intervals

We have a one-cow and a two-cow answer for each middle interval.

For the **one-cow answer**, we find that regardless of where the cow is placed,
it covers the same range that it beats Nhoj's cows.
We can thus use a sliding window to compute the maximum gain from a single cow.

For the **two-cow answer**, we can place cows right before both of Nhoj's cows,
thus gaining all the tastiness in the interval.
We then calculate the **gain** from adding the second cow to be the two-cow tastiness minus the one-cow tastiness.

> Finally, we can sort all the potential tastiness gains and select the $N$ largest ones to find our answer.

Reviewer 2: you should note that the 'gain' from the one cow answer will always be better than the 'gain' from the two cow answer, which is why this works
